Well to reach our our screens we need something which we can click which we can tap.
Later we'll have our great off categories here and we will work on this in this module too.
But just to get started with navigation I will add a boring button.
So on the categories screen where I have this text I want to add a button which I can tap to go to the
category meals screen.
So here I'll add this React Native button the one which is built in and set a title of go to meals.
And when we press this button I want to trigger a function which actually takes me to the category meals
screen.
Now we set up that category meals screen here.
But how can we now go to it while for this it's important to note that any component you loaded with
the help of React navigation gets a special prop passed and automatically so any component mapped to
one of your screen identifiers here.
So in this case these three components will get the special prop nested components in there don't automatically
get it just a top level components you mapped to identifiers in your navigators.
So that's a special prop I'm talking about.
Let's have a look at it.
So here in props we can extract that and let's simply start by console logging props here so that we
can get an idea and for now some we don't get an error.
I'll just pass a empty function here too on press.
So let's say doesn't let's see what's inside of props.
This reloads we have the button which doesn't do anything and here in the console we indeed see props
isn't empty.
This is our props object.
And there we have a navigation prop which itself is an object which has some actions.
OK but which also has for example pop push replays reset and a navigate function so a bunch of functions
in their functions which help us get around in our app.
It always has a screen props prop so our prop has screen props which we can ignore for now.
So this what's inside of props and does navigation prop doesn't a navigation part which is in there
really helps us.
So this navigation prop it helps us here because when we press this button and I'll do this with an
inline arrow function here of course you could have a separate function which you create in which you
then map to UN press.
This helps us this can be used to navigate around.
So on props navigation navigation systems special Prop. getting by react navigation because we loaded
this categories screen component with the help of our navigator here.
This special navigation prop has a navigate method.
And this is your main method.
The most important method for getting around with the help of React navigation how does navigate work
navigate takes the object as an argument and in this object you can set up the route named to which
you want to navigate.
So you pass a route Name property in this object which you pass to navigate and now important the route
name you specify here has to be one of the free route names I set up here.
Now route names are de identifiers you'd show chose in front of these colons so the property names in
this object you passed to create stack navigator.
These are your route names.
This is what you can now use to navigate around so here I want to go to category meals.
This is the route I want to use.
So hence here I pointed to category meals but not like this.
This in javascript would look for a category meals variable instead to a string named category meals
because this will basically tell javascript and react navigation the end that you want to go to the
root which has to category meals name and that is this root here.
So now this is how you can go there
if we now save this and we click on go to meals here you see we go to the meal screen we get this nice
animation out of the box we get this back button which looks exactly the way we would expect it to look
on ISIS and all of that works out of the box without any extra work no if check no manual animation
code we get this out of the box thanks to the react navigation library.
So with this we can go forth and back to our meal screen to the category meal screen and then back to
the category screen and does all the work some Android dare we get the Android specific routing navigation
which looks a bit different than on ISIS it's the navigation animation you would expect on Android of
course you can also use the device back button to then go back.
So this is how you can navigate to a different screen And please also notice that navigate of course
doesn't say anything about the direction we want to go it doesn't tell react navigation whether it should
play that forward animation or that backward animation react navigation automatically the text is because
under the hood it manages this stack of pages I was talking about this stack of screens and in this
stack right now when we start the app we only have the category screen but when I press this button
navigate in the end tells react navigation that since we're doing this inside of a component which was
loaded with a stack navigator that we want to navigate to a different screen which should be pushed
on top of the stack this is simply the default behavior and hence it knows that it wants to go forward
because a new route was pushed which means it's added to the stack we want to go forward and when you
click the back button which it adds automatically it pops this screen off the stack and since it removes
something from the stack it knows that it should play the back animation so that's what's happening
behind the scenes you don't really need to worry about that and that's a good thing.
I just want you to be aware of that that react navigation is doing the heavy lifting for you there and
manages this stack of screen and according animations you need data for under the hood for you.
Okay.
So that's allowing us to go back and forth for forth and back.
Now your challenge for the next lecture where we will then do it together is that you also will do the
same on the category meal screen and make sure that we can also go to the meal meal detailed screen
from there shouldn't be too hard in the next lecture we'll do it together.